CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

<!--
Copyright 2020 - Offen Authors <hioffen@posteo.de>
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
-->

# Contributing to Offen

## Did you find a bug?

- If the bug is a security issue, please do not report it publicly. Instead,
refer to our [Security document](SECURITY.md) for information on how to disclose the issue in private.
- Please check if there is a similar issue on the GitHub issue tracker of this
repository before opening a new one.
- If you are able to do, please provide any artifacts (code snippets,
screenshots, othe recordings) that help us reproduce and fix the issue.

## Do you want to translate Offen into your language?

Offen can be localized into any language and we are actively looking to grow the number of supported locales. If you would like to contribute by translating Offen into your language, send us an email to <hioffen@posteo.de> and we'll send you an invite to our translation tool. Thank you!

## Do you want to submit a Pull Request?

We're happy to accept contributions from everyone. You can check our [product roadmap][], [this repository's issues][issues], our [blog][] or our [Twitter][twitter] to see what we are currently working on and where we currently need help.

[blog]: https://www.offen.dev/blog/
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/hioffen
[product roadmap]: https://github.com/offen/offen/projects/1
[issues]: https://github.com/offen/offen/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22help+wanted%22

### You want to fix a bug

- If you want to fix a bug you found on the issue tracker, please make sure the
issue has a `Help wanted` label before trying to fix it.
- Open an Pull Request and we will take care of reviewing, merging and releasing your fix as soon as possible. Thank you!

### You have an idea for a feature and want to work on it

- Open an issue in the GitHub issue tracker describing on what you are planning
to add.
- We will get back to you and discuss when and how we can possibly add your
feature.
- After we agrees on the when and how, we will assign the issue to you. When you are done, create a PR and we will review, merge and include it in the next release it when ready.

### You want to contribute to our ongoing work

If you want to become a regular contributor to Offen, being part of our
continuous development cycle, please get in touch with us at
hioffen@posteo.de and we'll get back to you so we can discuss possible
options.

## Do you need help running Offen?

We have dedicated [documentation][docs] on running Offen available. If this does not cover what you are looking for or you are stuck, feel free to open an issue on this repository or email us <hioffen@posteo.de>.

[docs]: https://docs.offen.dev/running-offen/

Commit message:

repo: clean up READMEs and other docs

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

<!--
Copyright 2020-2021 - Offen Authors <hioffen@posteo.de>
SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
-->

# Contributing to Offen

## Did you find a bug?

- In case the bug is a security issue, please do not report it publicly. Instead,
refer to our [Security document](SECURITY.md) for information on how to disclose the issue in private.
- Please check if there is a similar issue on the GitHub issue tracker of this
repository before opening a new one.
- If you are able to do so, providing any artifacts (code snippets,
screenshots, other recordings) that help us reproduce and fix the issue are much appreciated.

## Do you want to translate Offen into your language?

Offen can be localized into any language and we are actively looking to grow the number of supported locales. If you would like to contribute by translating Offen into your language, send us an email to <hioffen@posteo.de> and we'll send you an invite to our translation tool. Thank you!

## Do you want to submit a Pull Request?

We're happy to accept contributions from everyone. You can check our [product roadmap][], [this repository's issue tracker][issues], our [blog][] or our [Twitter][twitter] to see what we are currently working on and where we currently need help.

[blog]: https://www.offen.dev/blog/
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/hioffen
[product roadmap]: https://github.com/offen/offen/projects/1
[issues]: https://github.com/offen/offen/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22help+wanted%22

### You want to fix a bug

- If you want to fix a bug you found on the issue tracker, please make sure the
issue has a `Help wanted` label before trying to fix it.
- Open a Pull Request and we will take care of reviewing, merging and releasing your fix as soon as possible. Thank you!

### You have an idea for a feature and want to work on it

- Open an issue in the GitHub issue tracker describing on what you are planning
to add.
- We will get back to you and discuss when and how we can possibly add your
feature.
- After we agree on the when and how, we will assign the issue to you. When you are done, create a PR and we will review, merge and include it in the next release it when ready.

### You want to contribute to our ongoing work

If you want to become a regular contributor to Offen and become part of our
continuous development cycle, please get in touch with us at
<hioffen@posteo.de> and we'll get back to you so we can discuss possible
options.

## Do you need help running Offen?

We have dedicated [documentation][docs] on running Offen available. If this does not cover what you are looking for or you are stuck, feel free to open an issue on this repository or email us at <hioffen@posteo.de>.

[docs]: https://docs.offen.dev/running-offen/
