docs/running-offen/configuring-deploying-offen-docker.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Tutorial: Configuring and Deploying Offen Using Docker"
nav_order: 5
description: "A step by step tutorial on how to use Docker to deploy Offen."
permalink: /running-offen/configuring-deploying-offen-docker/
parent: Running Offen
---

# Configuring and Deploying Offen Using Docker

This tutorial walks you through the steps needed to setup and deploy a standalone, single-node Offen instance that is using a local SQLite file as its database backend.

Other and more complex configuration options are documented in ["Configuring The Application At Runtime"][config-docs]. General considerations for deploying Offen are described in ["Requirements for Installing Offen"][installation].

[config-docs]: /running-offen/configuring-the-application/
[installation]: /running-offen/installation-requirements/

---

## 1. Pulling the Docker Image

The official Docker image is available as [`offen/offen`][docker-hub] on Docker Hub. The most recent official release is tagged as `stable`:

```sh
docker pull offen/offen:stable
```

If you are feeling adventurous, or require features that are not yet available in a release you can also use the `latest` tag which represents the latest state of development. Be aware though that these versions might be unstable.

[docker-hub]: https://hub.docker.com/r/offen/offen

---

## 2. Choosing a Location for Storing Your Data

In the simple setup described in this tutorial Offen needs to persist the following files:

- a database file
- a configuration file
- cache files the SSL certificates

Keeping these files available at any time is required for running the application, so make sure they are not stored on ephemeral systems. If you deploy to a ephemeral host (e.g. Heroku), check ["Configuring The Application At Runtime"][config-docs] for how to configure the application using environment variables and connecting to a remote Database.

---

This tutorial assumes you are on Linux, so we create a `~/offen` directory in which we will store our data. You can use basically any other location though, so feel free to change this.

In your `~/offen` directory, create a `cache` directory, which will be used for caching SSL certificates:

```
~/offen
└── cache
```

---

## 3. Creating a Configuration and Database File

Offen can source configuration from environment variables as well as configuration files. In this tutorial we will use a configuration file called `offen.env` and a database file called `offen.db` which you can create as empty files in your data directory:

```
~/offen
├── cache
└── offen.env
└── offen.db
```

---

## 4. Running the `setup` Command

Now that we have defined the database location, Offen lets you setup a new instance using the `setup` command:

```
docker run -it --rm \
  -v /home/you/offen/cache:/var/www/.cache \
  --mount type=bind,src=/home/you/offen/offen.env,dst=/root/offen.env \
  --mount type=bind,src=/home/you/offen/offen.db,dst=/root/offen.db \
  offen/offen:stable setup \
  -email me@mysite.com \ # the email used for login
  -name mysite \ # your account name, this will not be displayed to users
  -stdin-password \ # this will prompt for you password
  -populate # this will automatically create required secrets for you
```

When finished, the command has created an account for you, using the given name and credentials.

Your `offen.env` file will now look something like this:

```
OFFEN_SECRETS_COOKIEEXCHANGE="uNrZP7r5fY3sfS35tbzR9w==" # do not use this secret in production
OFFEN_SECRETS_EMAILSALT="uVXyuzCcpTim0v7uChCs1UA==" # do not use this secret in production
```

---

__Heads Up__
{: .label .label-red }

The value for `OFFEN_SECRETS_EMAILSALT` is not expected to ever change during the lifetime of a deployment. If this value gets lost or changes, you will not be able to log in again.

---

## 5. Setting up AutoTLS

Offen requires a secure connection and can automatically acquire a renew SSL certificates from LetsEncrypt for your domain. All you need to do is add the domain you want to serve Offen from to your `offen.env` file:

```
OFFEN_SERVER_AUTOTLS="offen.mysite.com"
```

To make sure the automatic certificate creation and renewal works, make sure your host system exposes __both port 80 and 443__ to the public internet.

---

## 6. Setting up Email

Offen needs to send transactional email for the following features:

- Inviting a new user to an account
- Resetting your password in case you forgot it

To enable this, you can add SMTP credentials, namely __Host, User, Password and Port__ to the `offen.env` file:

```
OFFEN_SMTP_HOST="smtp.mysite.com"
OFFEN_SMTP_USER="me"
OFFEN_SMTP_PASSWORD="my-password"
OFFEN_SMTP_PORT="587"
```

---

__Heads Up__
{: .label .label-red }

Offen will run without these values being set and try to fall back to a local `sendmail` install, yet please be aware that if you rely on any of the above features email delivery will be __very unreliable if not configured correctly__. You can always add this at a later time though.

---

## 7. Verifying your config file

Before you start the application, it's a good idea to double check the setup. Your config file should now contain an entry for each of these values:

```
OFFEN_SECRETS_COOKIEEXCHANGE="uNrZP7r5fY3sfS35tbzR9w==" # do not use this secret in production
OFFEN_SECRETS_EMAILSALT="VXyuzCcpTim0v7uChCs1UA==" # do not use this secret in production
OFFEN_SERVER_AUTOTLS="offen.mysite.com"
OFFEN_SMTP_HOST="smtp.mysite.com"
OFFEN_SMTP_USER="me"
OFFEN_SMTP_PASSWORD="my-password"
OFFEN_SMTP_PORT="587"
```

If all of this is populated with the values you expect, you're ready to use Offen.

---

## 8. Starting the Application

To start Offen use the main `offen` command:

```
docker run -d \ # detach and run in the background
  -v /home/you/offen/cache:/var/www/.cache \
  --mount type=bind,src=/home/you/offen/offen.env,dst=/root/offen.env \
  --mount type=bind,src=/home/you/offen/offen.db,dst=/root/offen.db \
  offen/offen:stable
```

Once the application has started, you can use `docker ps` to check if it's up and running:

```
$ docker ps
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                COMMAND                  CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                    NAMES
70653aca75b4        offen/offen:stable   "offen"                  5 minutes ago       Up 5 minutes        80/tcp, 443/tcp          nice_murdock
```

Your instance is now ready to use. Once you have setup DNS to point at your host system, you can head to `https://offen.mysite.com/login` and login to your account.

Commit message:

add contact info to tutorial

docs/running-offen/configuring-deploying-offen-docker.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Tutorial: Configuring and Deploying Offen Using Docker"
nav_order: 5
description: "A step by step tutorial on how to use Docker to deploy Offen."
permalink: /running-offen/configuring-deploying-offen-docker/
parent: Running Offen
---

# Configuring and Deploying Offen Using Docker

This tutorial walks you through the steps needed to setup and deploy a standalone, single-node Offen instance that is using a local SQLite file as its database backend.

Other and more complex configuration options are documented in ["Configuring The Application At Runtime"][config-docs]. General considerations for deploying Offen are described in ["Requirements for Installing Offen"][installation].

If you have questions about configuring and deploying Offen using Docker that are not covered in this tutorial feel free to [open an issue in our GitHub repository][issues] or send us an email at <hioffen@posteo.de>.

[config-docs]: /running-offen/configuring-the-application/
[installation]: /running-offen/installation-requirements/
[issues]: https://github.com/offen/offen/issues

---

## 1. Pulling the Docker Image

The official Docker image is available as [`offen/offen`][docker-hub] on Docker Hub. The most recent official release is tagged as `stable`:

```sh
docker pull offen/offen:stable
```

If you are feeling adventurous, or require features that are not yet available in a release you can also use the `latest` tag which represents the latest state of development. Be aware though that these versions might be unstable.

[docker-hub]: https://hub.docker.com/r/offen/offen

---

## 2. Choosing a Location for Storing Your Data

In the simple setup described in this tutorial Offen needs to persist the following files:

- a database file
- a configuration file
- cache files the SSL certificates

Keeping these files available at any time is required for running the application, so make sure they are not stored on ephemeral systems. If you deploy to a ephemeral host (e.g. Heroku), check ["Configuring The Application At Runtime"][config-docs] for how to configure the application using environment variables and connecting to a remote Database.

---

This tutorial assumes you are on Linux, so we create a `~/offen` directory in which we will store our data. You can use basically any other location though, so feel free to change this.

In your `~/offen` directory, create a `cache` directory, which will be used for caching SSL certificates:

```
~/offen
└── cache
```

---

## 3. Creating a Configuration and Database File

Offen can source configuration from environment variables as well as configuration files. In this tutorial we will use a configuration file called `offen.env` and a database file called `offen.db` which you can create as empty files in your data directory:

```
~/offen
├── cache
└── offen.env
└── offen.db
```

---

## 4. Running the `setup` Command

Now that we have defined the database location, Offen lets you setup a new instance using the `setup` command:

```
docker run -it --rm \
  -v /home/you/offen/cache:/var/www/.cache \
  --mount type=bind,src=/home/you/offen/offen.env,dst=/root/offen.env \
  --mount type=bind,src=/home/you/offen/offen.db,dst=/root/offen.db \
  offen/offen:stable setup \
  -email me@mysite.com \ # the email used for login
  -name mysite \ # your account name, this will not be displayed to users
  -stdin-password \ # this will prompt for you password
  -populate # this will automatically create required secrets for you
```

When finished, the command has created an account for you, using the given name and credentials.

Your `offen.env` file will now look something like this:

```
OFFEN_SECRETS_COOKIEEXCHANGE="uNrZP7r5fY3sfS35tbzR9w==" # do not use this secret in production
OFFEN_SECRETS_EMAILSALT="uVXyuzCcpTim0v7uChCs1UA==" # do not use this secret in production
```

---

__Heads Up__
{: .label .label-red }

The value for `OFFEN_SECRETS_EMAILSALT` is not expected to ever change during the lifetime of a deployment. If this value gets lost or changes, you will not be able to log in again.

---

## 5. Setting up AutoTLS

Offen requires a secure connection and can automatically acquire a renew SSL certificates from LetsEncrypt for your domain. All you need to do is add the domain you want to serve Offen from to your `offen.env` file:

```
OFFEN_SERVER_AUTOTLS="offen.mysite.com"
```

To make sure the automatic certificate creation and renewal works, make sure your host system exposes __both port 80 and 443__ to the public internet.

---

## 6. Setting up Email

Offen needs to send transactional email for the following features:

- Inviting a new user to an account
- Resetting your password in case you forgot it

To enable this, you can add SMTP credentials, namely __Host, User, Password and Port__ to the `offen.env` file:

```
OFFEN_SMTP_HOST="smtp.mysite.com"
OFFEN_SMTP_USER="me"
OFFEN_SMTP_PASSWORD="my-password"
OFFEN_SMTP_PORT="587"
```

---

__Heads Up__
{: .label .label-red }

Offen will run without these values being set and try to fall back to a local `sendmail` install, yet please be aware that if you rely on any of the above features email delivery will be __very unreliable if not configured correctly__. You can always add this at a later time though.

---

## 7. Verifying your config file

Before you start the application, it's a good idea to double check the setup. Your config file should now contain an entry for each of these values:

```
OFFEN_SECRETS_COOKIEEXCHANGE="uNrZP7r5fY3sfS35tbzR9w==" # do not use this secret in production
OFFEN_SECRETS_EMAILSALT="VXyuzCcpTim0v7uChCs1UA==" # do not use this secret in production
OFFEN_SERVER_AUTOTLS="offen.mysite.com"
OFFEN_SMTP_HOST="smtp.mysite.com"
OFFEN_SMTP_USER="me"
OFFEN_SMTP_PASSWORD="my-password"
OFFEN_SMTP_PORT="587"
```

If all of this is populated with the values you expect, you're ready to use Offen.

---

## 8. Starting the Application

To start Offen use the main `offen` command:

```
docker run -d \ # detach and run in the background
  -v /home/you/offen/cache:/var/www/.cache \
  --mount type=bind,src=/home/you/offen/offen.env,dst=/root/offen.env \
  --mount type=bind,src=/home/you/offen/offen.db,dst=/root/offen.db \
  offen/offen:stable
```

Once the application has started, you can use `docker ps` to check if it's up and running:

```
$ docker ps
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE                COMMAND                  CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                    NAMES
70653aca75b4        offen/offen:stable   "offen"                  5 minutes ago       Up 5 minutes        80/tcp, 443/tcp          nice_murdock
```

Your instance is now ready to use. Once you have setup DNS to point at your host system, you can head to `https://offen.mysite.com/login` and login to your account.
