---
layout: default
title: Understanding the Application Architecture
nav_order: 5
description: "Just the Docs is a responsive Jekyll theme with built-in search that is easily customizable and hosted on GitHub Pages."
permalink: /developing-offen/understanding-architecture/
parent: Developing Offen
---

# Understanding the Application Architecture

Offen is composed of four major parts.

## The `script`

In order to use Offen to collect usage data on a site, the `script` needs to embedded on each page that is supposed to be contained in the statistics. It is a simple script that will collect and transmit basic pageview data on pageload as well as on pushstate events.

## The `vault`

Offen aims to protect all of the data it is handling from 3rd party scripts that might be running on the same host page as the `script`. This is why the `vault` acts as intermediate layer between client side applications like the `script` and the `auditorium`, leveraging the protection offered by the Same-Origin-Policy.

The `vault` is a basic HTML document that is supposed to be loaded in an invisible iframe by any application that wants to use it to interact with the server. It runs a script that is listening for `postMessage` messages emitted by its host document. It is also able to query for data - either in the local IndexedDB or against the `server` - and respond to messages if needed. Message origins are checked and responses are limited to messages coming from the same domain, ensuring no data is leaked to 3rd parties.

The `vault` should be the only interface for both the `script` and the `auditorium` to read and update data on the `server` as it ensures all data exchange is protected. The `vault` also has two other important responsibilities: it handles all client-side cryptography, ensuring event data is encrypted before leaving the browser, as well as managing the data that is persisted in the local IndexedDB. Handling IndexedDB operations from the `vault` also ensures it is only accessible to offen and protected from 3rd party access.

## The `auditorium`

A pure client side application, the `auditorium` is responsible for displaying usage data to both users and operators. It is also used to manage data and accounts.

This application is only concerned with display logic and performing requests against the vault, all business logic will be a concern of the `vault` instead. The `auditorium` should never read or write data from and to sources other than the embedded `vault`.

## The `server`

The `server` is a server side application that has two responsibilities: it serves the static assets generated by the `script`, the `vault` and the `auditorium` (in local development these assets are being proxied by nginx though). Also, it exposes a HTTP JSON API these client side scripts can use to create and query event data and manage accounts.
