content/pages/index.md, before:

Title: Transparent web analytics | offen
description: offen is a free and open source analytics software for websites and web applications that allows respectful handling of data.
save_as: index.html


__offen__ is a web analytics software that gives users access to the data they are generating. Not only operators running sites or applications are given able to use the analytics tools, but also *the users themselves are granted access to and ownership of their data*.

Usage metrics come with explanations about their meaning, relevance, usage and possible privacy implications. __offen__ also details *which kind of data is not collected*. All data can be deleted selectively or in its entirety by the users, or the collection can be disabled altogether.

__offen__ treats both users and operators as parties of equal importance. Users can expect full transparency and are encouraged to make *autonomous and informed decisions regarding the use of their data*. Operators are enabled to gain insights while respecting their users' privacy and their data.

__offen__ is currently being conceptually designed and is applying for funds to sustain its development.

<a href="./deep-dive/" class="btn">Deep dive</a>

Commit message:

add note about alpha version

content/pages/index.md, after:

Title: Transparent web analytics | offen
description: offen is a free and open source analytics software for websites and web applications that allows respectful handling of data.
save_as: index.html


__offen__ is a web analytics software that gives users access to the data they are generating. Not only operators running sites or applications are given able to use the analytics tools, but also *the users themselves are granted access to and ownership of their data*.

Usage metrics come with explanations about their meaning, relevance, usage and possible privacy implications. __offen__ also details *which kind of data is not collected*. All data can be deleted selectively or in its entirety by the users, or the collection can be disabled altogether.

__offen__ treats both users and operators as parties of equal importance. Users can expect full transparency and are encouraged to make *autonomous and informed decisions regarding the use of their data*. Operators are enabled to gain insights while respecting their users' privacy and their data.

__offen__ is currently in the early stages of development and is applying for funds to sustain its development. An early alpha version is running on this site: you can visit the [auditorium](https://auditorium-alpha.offen.dev) to access your data.

<a href="./deep-dive/" class="btn">Deep dive</a>
